This directory contains scripts that can be used for various purposes:  
#1. Normalizing imputed values obtained from other methods
Please refer to the *normalized_imputed* directory for more details.  

#2. Validating random walk outputs  
Due to the long processing time when running the random walk imputation, the compute infrastucture might crash for various reasons or the user might decide they need to kill a running job and restart it later. The **validate_rwr** script can be used at the end of step2 of the snapHiC computation to verify that all chromosome in all cells are completed and the imputed values are written successfully to the file. This is performed by comparing the line numbers for all cells per chromosome. The name of the file with incomplete output will be reported to the user. This code can be called by:   
```python
python validate_rwr.py <snapHiC_output_directory>
```

#3. Creating .hic files from the FDR values of interaction significance 
The hic files generated by default are computed based on the percentage of cells with an outlier number of interactions in each binpair. In order to generate a hic file using the computed statistical significance after comparison with the local neighborhood (after t-score computation), the user can utilize the *create_normalized_hic.py* script:  
```python
python create_normalized_hic.py <snapHiC_output_directory>
``` 
This script generates the input file to the juicer_tools *pre* command. Juicer_tools is an awesome tool generate by the Aidan lab. For the user convenience we have included an executable of it in this directory (with its copyright file).

